Add parameters (#1)
desmos-labs/mainnet: PARAMETERS.md

# Genesis Parameters

> DESMOS will be running with the following parameters at genesis. Most of the parameters can be updated by using a `ParameterChangeProposal` in `Governance` module. Only changes of parameters from `Cosmos SDK` modules are listed below.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
DESMOS will be running with the following parameters at genesis. Most of the parameters can be updated by using a `ParameterChangeProposal` and the `x/gov` module. Below we list only the changes to the parameters from the  Cosmos SDK modules. All the other parameters values are going to be the default ones. 
```

## Base

> * `"genesis_time": "2021-08-31T11:00:00Z"`. 31 Aug 2021 3pm UTC

Reviewer: 3pm it's 15, not 11
```suggestion
* `"genesis_time": "2021-08-31T15:00:00Z"`. 31 Aug 2021 3pm UTC
```

> * `"chain_id": "desmos-1"`. The Chain ID of the DESMOS mainnet will be `desmos-1`.

Reviewer: Should we have this something more characteristic? Maybe `hypnos`, which is the father or Morpheus?

Reviewer: Maybe even [_Janus_](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Janus):

> In ancient Roman religion and myth, Janus (/ˈdʒeɪnəs/ JAY-nəs; Latin: Iānus) is the god of beginnings, gates, transitions, time, duality, doorways, passages, frames, and endings. He is usually depicted as having two faces.

Reviewer 2: I'm fine with using `desmos-1` to distinguish it from testnets. 
I love names but I think this should be something more explicit that even outsiders will quickly understand

Author: I think we better keep this simple and straightforward to understand.

Reviewer: Can we use something more explicit then? Maybe a classic `desmos-mainnet-1`?

Author: Or should we change the chain id of testnets to include `testnet`?

## Consensus

> * `"max_gas": "100000000"`. Maximum gas per block is set to `100,000,000`. For default `200,000` gas per transaction, it should accept `500` transaction per block.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* `"max_gas": "100000000"`. Maximum gas per block is set to `100,000,000`. Considering the default `200,000` gas per transaction, this means `500` transactions should be included inside each block.
```

* `"max_age_duration": "1209600000000000"`. 2 weeks for double sign evidence.
* `"max_age_num_blocks": "204670"`. This is calculated by `max_age_duration` / `5.91` which is the average block time on `morpheus-apollo-2` testnet.

## Crisis

> * `"amount": "13333000000"`. We will need `13333 DSM` to halt the chain if anything goes wrong.

Reviewer: Why this specific amount?

Author: No specific reason 🤣 . Any amount suggestion?

Author: Oh yeah. I actually referenced the `cosmoshub-4` genesis file.

```
"crisis": {
      "constant_fee": {
        "amount": "1333000000",
        "denom": "uatom"
      }
    },
```

Maybe we should set it to 5x of the value in `cosmoshub-4`. The initial supply of `ATOM` was 216M while `DSM` is 100M. If we take the market cap of `DSM` is 1/10 of `ATOM` while we keep similar security budget for halting the chain, the value should be 5x of `cosmoshub-4`.

Reviewer: Was the initial amount considering the price and distribution, or only the percentage of the minted tokens?

Author: I think price and distribution is not important. Instead how much percentage of the total supply would be required to halt the chain.

Reviewer: How could we? All the past testnet had id starting with `morpheus`, and the current one too. We can't change the past, and a new chain start is required to change the chain ID. I think it would be very silly to do this now 😅

Anyway, we can leave it simply `desmos-1` if you think it's better

Author: That's my original idea, all testnet chain id starts with `morpheus`. I meant if we have to explicitly specify the difference, we can change the pattern of testnet chain id going forward, not for the past. But I do think 

`demsos-xxx` refers to mainnet
`morpheus-xxx` refers to testnet

would already be fine.

## Distribution

> * `"community_tax": "0.200000000000000000"`. The tax on inflation and fees for community pool will be `20%`.

Reviewer: Isn't the tax only applied to fees?

Author: Tax applies to block rewards and fees.

## Governance

> * `"min_deposit": 1337000000udesmos`. The minimum deposit to make a proposal turn into voting period will be `1337 DSM`.

Reviewer: Wouldn't this be too high if we need fast governance in the beginning? Having it set to 1337 DSM it means ~ 375$ which is quite a lot to be honest. This amount of money might make people desist in submitting gov spending proposals to ask for funds as well

Author: I expect the first proposal is submitted by us. We need to prepare an account with enough available balance. 

I think it's not about the amount in $ value but we have to consider how easy they can get this amount for proposal deposit under high inflation. I estimate a token holder with 50K DSM can get this amount in around 2 weeks in early stage.

Any amount suggestion?

Reviewer: I think we can go with 500 DSM. This should be a high enough value to avoid spam, and at the same time a small enough value to allow medium token holders to be able to request tokens from the community pool. We can increase it later if we need

Author: Ok let's do `500 DSM`.

* `"max_deposit_period": "259200s"`. The maxmium deposit period for a proposal will be `259,200 seconds` which is `3 days`.
* `"voting_period": "604800s"`. The voting period of a proposal will be `604,800 seconds` which is `7 days`.

## Mint

* `"mint_denom": "udsm"`. The mint denom will be `udsm`. This is the smallest unit of the staking token `DSM`.
* `"inflation_rate_change": "1.000000000000000000"`. Inflation change rate is set to `1` to have the optimum speed to make the inflation rate change to the target inflation.

> * `"inflation_max": "0.000000000000000000"` and `"inflation_min": "0.000000000000000000"`. Both parameters are set to `0` at genesis to avoid imbalanced suddenn change of token distribution at launch. These values will be changed by a `ParameterChangePropoal` right after launch. According to the parameters in `Governance` module, the earliest time for the parameter change to happen will be 7 days after the genesis time. This period of zero inflation will give enough time for token holders to stake until inflation is turned on. The `inflation_max` will be set to `0.8` and `inflation_min` will be set to `0.4` as written in the whitepaper.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* `"inflation_max": "0.000000000000000000"` and `"inflation_min": "0.000000000000000000"`. Both parameters are set to `0` at genesis to avoid an imbalanced sudden change of token distribution at launch. These values will be changed by a `ParameterChangePropoal` right after launch. According to the parameters inside the _Governance_ module, the earliest time for the parameter change to happen will be 7 days after the genesis time. This period of zero inflation will give enough time for token holders to stake until inflation is turned on. The `inflation_max` will be set to `0.8` and `inflation_min` will be set to `0.4` as written in the whitepaper.
```

> * `"goal_bonded": "0.9"`. We see staking ratio can reach over 82% on other networks. Setting the `goal_bonded` higher to attract token holders to stake and incentivize early stakers.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* `"goal_bonded": "0.9"`. We see staking ratio can reach over 82% on other networks. We are setting a higher `goal_bonded` to attract token holders to stake and incentivize early stakers.
```

> * `"blocks_per_year": "5339695"`. Base on `5.91 seconds` of average block time on `morpheus-apollo-2` testnet.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* `"blocks_per_year": "5339695"`. Based on `5.91 seconds` of average block time on `morpheus-apollo-2` testnet.
```

## Slashing

* `"signed_blocks_window": "150000"`. This is around `24 hours` based on `5.91 seconds` block time.
* `"min_signed_per_window": "0.050000000000000000`. Validators will be kept on active set if they sign `5%` of blocks in every `signed_blocks_window`.

> * `"downtime_jail_duration": "1800s"`. Down time for uptime jail is `30 minutes`.

Reviewer: Wow this is very small. Are we sure we want to go sub-hour time?

Author: This is what live on `cosmoshub-4` right now.

```
"downtime_jail_duration": "600s"
```
